MARKDOWN/Cheatsheet_MD.md, before:

# **WELCOME TO THE GIT CHEAT SHEET**

    AUTHOR:         ESHAN KALP TRIVEDI  (Github: EshanTrivedi21)
    REFERENCE:      GIT GITHUB BOOTCAMP - COLT STEELE (UDEMY)
    DESCRIPTION:    Your very own Git AND Github Cheat Sheet having basic Windows Terminal Cheats as well!

***GO ON FROM HERE, ALL THE BEST***


<br/>

## TERMINAL BASICS:

It is the LIST command which LISTS all the contents of a Directory

    $ ls                                   

LOCATES to a directory and then LISTS the contents

    $ ls foldername                        

PRINT WORKING DIRECTORY

    $ pwd                                  

CHANGES and HOPS onto the respective Working Directory

    $ cd C:\User\Eshan\foldername        

HOPS onto the Parent Directory of the Working Directory

    $ cd ..   

CLEARS the used Terminal                             

    $ clear                                

QUITS out of a entered command

    $ q                                    

CREATES an Empty directory inside the Working Directory

    $ mkdir foldername                     

DELETES the file

    $ rm filename                          

DELETES the directory

    $ rm -rf foldername                    

OPENS the File Explorer to the ROOT Directory

    $ start .                              

<br/>

## SETTING GIT USER NAME AND EMAIL: 

to CHECK if git User-Name is set

    $ git config user.name   

to CHECK if git User-Email is set

    $ git config user.email                                            

To SET or CHANGE git User-Name

    $ git config --global user.name "Eshan Trivedi"                    

To SET or CHANGE git User-Email

    $ git config --global user.email eshan.trivedi.9@gmail.com         

to SET or CHANGE default code editor as VsCode

    $ git config --global core.editor "code --wait"                    

to CHANGE git User-Name and git User-Email directly in the config file using vim

    $ git config --global --edit                                       

to STORE git User-Name and git User-Email in disk

    $ git config credential.helper store                               

To EXIT vim

    $ escape + :wq                                                     

<br/>


## GETTING  GIT HELP:

Use for more details and examples on any of the below (or above) commands e.g. push, pull etc.                     

    $ git command --help                                              

<br/>

## CREATING A GIT REPOSITORY:

`STEP 1` :   INITIALIZES an empty repository
    
    $ git init             

`STEP 2` : to CHECK the status of a repository, a .git directory is created, all git history is deleted if .git is deleted

    $ git status           

<br/>

## STAGING FILE/FILES OF THE REPOSITORY:

*(to keep a track of modifications or changes)*

<br/>

STAGES the file

    $ git add filename.txt         

UN-STAGES the file

    $ git rm --cached filename.txt                           

STAGES all files in the repository

    $ git add --all 

        OR  

    $ git all . 

        OR

    $ git add .        

<br/>

## COMMITING A COMMIT:

<br/>


COMMITS the STAGED files with a commit message

    $ git commit -m "commit message"           

SKIPS the Staging part and directly COMMITS

    $ git commit -a -m "commit message"        

LOGS all the commits done to the repository
    
    $ git log                                  

LOG commits in a single line

    $ git log --oneline                        

AMMENDS the previous commit

    $ git commit --ammend                      

LOGS the changes

    $ git diff                                 

<br/>

## EVERYTHING ABOUT GIT IGNORE:

*(git doesnt consider the files/folders which are in .gitignore)*

`STEP 1` :             create a .gitignore file

`STEP 2` :             add files or folders inside the file to ignore, now the files are are untracked by github and wont be staged or commited

<br/>

## GIT BRANCHING:

*(if you  are trying something out but do on want to play with the main branch)*

LOGS all the branches of the Working Repository with an * in the Current Head or GO to .git\refs\heads

    $ git branch                       

CREATES a new branch but the branch is not yet SWITCHED
    
    $ git branch branchname            

SWITCHES the Branch from one to another or CHANGING HEAD, but the current changes need to be STASHED or COMMITED

    $ git switch branchname            

CREATES a new branch and then SWITCHES to the branches

    $ git switch -c newbranch          

CREATES a new branch and then SWITCHES to the branch

    $ git checkout -b newbranch        

DELETES newbranch, but you cant be Headed on the Branch you want to delete

    $ git branch -D newbranch          

CHANGES the name of the Branch you are Headed on
    
    $ git branch -M finalbranch        

TO DELETE A REMOTE BRANCH IN GIT

    $ git push --delete origin branchname 

<br/>

## MERGING BRANCHES:

*FAST FORWARD MERGE (NO CHANGES done on the Master Branch)*

`STEP 1` : SWITCH the HEAD first to the first branch         
    
    $ git switch master     

`STEP 2` : MERGES newbranch into master with HEAD on master        
    
    $ git merge newbranch          

   
*NOT ALL MERGES ARE FAST FORWARD MERGES*

1. WITHOUT MERGE CONFLICTS

        $ git switch master
    
    CREATES a new commit unlike fastforwarding merges

        $ git merge -m "mergering message"         

2. MERGE CONFLICTS

    *(only if conflict message occurs)*

    `STEP 1` : OPEN UP files having merge conflicts 

    `STEP 2` : REMOVE the conflicts 

       OPTION 1:           ACCEPT INCOMING CHANGES

       OPTION 2:           ACCEPT CURRENT CHANGES

       OPTION 3:           ACCEPT BOTH CHANGES

       OPTION 4:           COMPARE CHANGES 

    `STEP 3` : REMOVE the conflict markers

    `STEP 4` : STAGE and COMMIT the changes

3. ABORT MERGE (UNDO merge when mistakenly code merged & multiple unresolvable merging conflicts occur)

        $ git merge --abort

<br/>


## STASHING IN GIT:

*(needed when switching branches but the changes arent commit ready but by not stashing, the changes will behave wierdly)*

1. CHANGES WILL EITHER COME IN THE DESTINATION BRANCH

2. GIT WONT ALLOW SWITCHING IF THERE ARE CONFLICTS

    *(hence to prevent this staging is important, its like a save but doesnt show up anywhere unless popped)*

    STASHES the changes

        $ git stash

    UN STASHES the changes, use it when you resume your work
  
        $ git stash pop         
    
    APPLY stashed changes into another or the same branch

        $ git stash apply      

3. IF WORKING WITH MULTIPLE STASHES

      LOGS all the stashes

         $ git stash list                   

      STASHES the changes in the Stash index 1

		 $ git stash apply stash@{1}        

	  DELETES the stash, p.s. applying the stash doesnt delete it

		 $ git stash drop stash@{1}         

	  CLEARS the whole stash list

		 $ git stash clear                  
            
<br/>

## TIME TRAVELLING WITH GIT:

 1. TO JUST CHECK WHAT THE REPOSITORY LOOKED LIKE IN THE COMMIT ID 604a39a
 
 	DETACHES HEAD and attaches it to the commit with the commit id 604a39a
	
	*(this is not normal because HEAD is meant to map a whole branch and not a specific commit)*

        $ git checkout 604a39a
    
    DETACHES HEAD and ATTACHES it to the previous commit

        $ git checkout HEAD~1    
    
    RE-ATTACHES HEAD and now the head properly maps onto the master branch

        $ git switch master                
    
2. TO CREATE AND WORK WITH A NEW BRANCH AT COMMIT ID 604a39a

        $ git checkout 604a39a             
    
    now the HEAD is perfect where it should have been

        $ git switch -c "new branch"       
    
3. TO RESTORE ALL CHANGES TO TRACKED FILES
        
        $ git reset origin/main --hard

   
 4. TO RESTORE CHANGES OF A PARTICULAR FILE TO THE LAST COMMIT

        $ git checkout HEAD filename.txt

    OR           

        $ git restore filename.txt

5. TO RESTORE CHANGES OF A PARTICULAR FILE TO THE SECOND-LAST COMMIT

        $ git restore --source HEAD~1 filename.txt

6. UNSTAGE A FILE 

        $ git restore --unstaged filename.txt 

7. RESETING THE REPOSITORY TO A PARTICULAR COMMIT
    
    RESETS the HEAD to the commit id 604a39a, but it doesnt delete the changes. 
	
	*(it like there is no commit made after commit id 604a39a)*

        $ git reset 604a39a            

    LOOSES the commit as well as LOOSES the contents of the commit

        $ git reset --hard 604a39a     

8. REVERTING THE REPOSITORY TO A PARTICULAR COMMIT

    REVERTS the changes in that particular commit and CREATES a new commit after reverting changes 
	
	*(p.s. this helps while collaboration)*

        $ git revert 604a39a           

<br/>

## CREATING GITHUB RESPOSITORIES:

1. BUILD A NEW REPOSITORY AND START WORKING FROM SCRATCH (BY REMOTING)

    `STEP 1` : CREATE A NEW REPOSITORY ON YOUR GITHUB WEBSITE AND COPY THE URL

    `STEP 2` : CREATES an empty git repository    
    
        $ git init                                     

    `STEP 3` : WRITE YOUR PIECE OF CODE            

    `STEP 4` : a commit is needed to push any files to github       
    
        $ git commit -a -m "first commit"              

    `STEP 5` : CREATES a new REMOTE DESTINATION for the github repository
    
        $ git remote add origin <copied url>           

    `STEP 6` : LOGS out the REMOTE URL if any

        $ git remote -v                                

    
    `STEP 7` :   PUSHES the last commited code to github        
        
        $ git push -u origin branchname                
    
    *(p.s. the -u is like a setting the origin remote and master branch as a default so that we can use just this in futur)* 
    
        $ git push 

 2. BUILD A NEW REPOSITORY AND START WORKING FROM SCRATCH (BY CLONING)

    `STEP 1` : CREATE A NEW REPOSITORY ON YOUR GITHUB WEBSITE AND COPY THE URL

    `STEP 2` : CLONES as well as automatically sets the REMOTE DESTINATION
    
        $ git clone <copied url>                       

    `STEP 3` : WRITE YOUR PIECE OF CODE

    `STEP 4` : a commit is needed to push any files to github
    
        $  git commit -a -m "first commit"              
        
    `STEP 5` : PUSHES the last commited code to github
    
        $ git push -u origin branchname
    
    *(p.s. the -u is like a setting the origin remote and master branch as a default so that we can use just this in future)*
        
        $ git push 
    
3. CONNECT YOUR PREEXISTING GIT REPOSITORY TO A NEW GITHUB REPOSITORY

    `STEP 1` : CREATE A NEW REPOSITORY ON YOUR GITHUB WEBSITE AND COPY THE URL

    `STEP 2` :  CREATES a new REMOTE DESTINATION for the github repository

        $ git remote add origin <copied url>           

    `STEP 3` : LOGS out the REMOTE URL if any

        $ git remote -v                               

    `STEP 4` : PUSHES the last commited code to github
    
        $ git push -u origin branchname                 
    
    *(p.s. the -u is like a setting the origin remote and master branch as a default so that we can use just this in future)*
    
        $ git push 

<br/>

## THE origin/master THEORY:

*origin/master is called as a REMOTE TRACKING BRANCH, It is a Remote Branch that represents our local Branch

LOGS the remote tracking branch

    $ git branch -r                        
    
to check out the remote branch code: DETACHES HEAD onto the remote tracking HEAD, in a case where the local branch is    ahead of the remote branch and not up to date, push to make it up to date

    $ git checkout origin/master
	
now if you CLONE a repository with multiple branches and run

    $ git branch
	
then technically all the branches should have been logged, but this is not the case only master branch is logged, this is because by default only local master branch is connected to the remote branch but others need to be connected in order to work with them and the simplest way to do so is:

to check all the branches available

    $ git branch -r                        

this automatically CONNECTS the two branches and we can freely work on them now

    $ git switch branchname                

now this correctly LOGS all the connected branches

    $ git branch                           

<br/>

## FETCHING:

*FETCHING allows to get changes from the github remote repository to our local git repository but DOESN'T CHANGE into the working directory*
 
To RECIEVE the new commits

    $ git fetch                                                                

CREATES a new branch having the changes but this doesnt interfere in the working directory, the origin/master now heads on to this new branch and the master branch would be one branch behind the origin/master)

    $ git fetch origin

or      

    $ git fetch origin branchname              

to CHECK out the remote branch code: DETACHES HEAD onto the remote tracking HEAD, in a case where the local branch is ahead of the remote branch and not up to date, push to make it up to date)         

    $ git checkout origin/master                                               

<br/>

## PULLING = FETCHING + MERGING:

PULLS the changes and merges the changes with the branch you want to OR default
        
    $ git pull origin      
    
or

    $ git pull origin branchname               

        
*SOLVE MERGE CONFLICTS IF ANY* 

<br/>

## FORCE PUSH AND PULL:

    $ git push origin <your_branch_name> -f                                          
        
This will delete your previous commit(s) and push your current one. f signifies force .
 
       
    $ git pull --rebase=interactive   
    
OR
 
    $ git pull --rebase=i                        
    
*This is nothing but fetch + rebase. This will invoke rebase in interactive mode where you can choose how to apply each individual commit that isn't in the history you are rebasing on.*
 
*REFER TIME TRAVELLING WITH GIT for more git force pulling commands*

<br/>

## GITHUB COLLABORATION:
    
`CENTRALIZED WORKFLOW` : 

Everybody works on the same main branch and push and pull in the main branch only.

`FEATURE BRANCH WORKFLOW` : 

Every feature is pushed upon another independent branch to minimize mess.

`GITHUB PULL REQUEST WORKFLOW` : 

Once a pull request is opened, you can discuss and review the potential changes with collaborators and add follow-up commits before your changes are merged into the base branch.

`GITHUB FORKS AND CLONE WORKFLOW` : 

Forking nd then opening a pull request to the owner of the main repository.


<br/>

## GIT REBASING:
    
REBASES or SEPARATES the history of the newbranch from the master branch

    $ git switch newbranch

REBASES or MERGES master into newbranch   
    
    $ git rebase master                

CONFLICTS WHILE REBASING

`STEP 1` : Resolve the CONFLICTS MANUALLY

`STEP 2` :         
    
    $ git add .

`STEP 3` :        

    $ git rebase --continue

 <br/>   

## INTERACTIVE REBASING:

OPENS up the code editor where you can play with the nth last commits and above
    
    $ git rebase -i HEAD~n    

 CHANGES the name of a specific commit

    reword                         

COMBINES the changes of that commit to the previous commit and then deletes it

    fixup                           

DELETES the commit and the commit changes as if they were never written

    drop                            

<br/>

## GIT TAGS:

TAGS and DENOTES the importance of a commit

*Semanting Versioning Format is widely used for tags and releases (v1.0.1)*

LOGS all the tags
    
    $ git tag -l      

LOGS tag name v17                     
    
    $ git tag -l "v17"                     

LOGS tag names that start with v17..

    $ git tag -l "v17*"                    

LOGS tags which include beta in their name

    $ git tag -l "*beta*"                  

to CHECKOUT the code in the tag, use CHECKOUT

LOGS the changes between both the versions

    $ git diff v16.0.1 v16.1.1             

CREATES a lightweight tag

    $ git tag tagname         

CREATES an annotated tag

    $ git tag -a tagname                   

LOGS the message of the git tag "annotated"

    $ git show annotation                  

CREATES a tag at commit number 604a39a

    $ git tag -a tagname 604a39a           

DELETES the tag

    $ git tag -d tagname                   

TRANSFERS tags to remote servers  

    $ git push origin tagname              

<br/>

## GITHUB DESKTOP:

Interact with GitHub using a GUI instead of the command line or a web browser

1.Installing and authenticating

`STEP 1` : Download GitHub Desktop for Windows using this [URL](https://desktop.github.com/).

`STEP 2` : Click on “File” on the navbar, go down to “Options,” choose “Accounts,” and get authentication.

2.Contributing to projects with GitHub Desktop

`STEP 1` : You can create a new repository by selecting the File menu and clicking New repository.

`STEP 2`: You can add a repository from your local computer by selecting the File menu and clicking Add Local Repository.

`STEP 3` : You can clone a repository from GitHub by selecting the File menu and clicking Clone Repository.

`STEP 4` : You can use GitHub Desktop to create a branch of a project.

`STEP 5` : After you make changes to a branch, you can review them in GitHub Desktop and make a commit to keep track of your changes.

`STEP 6` : You can use GitHub Desktop to create issues or pull requests to collaborate on projects with other people.

`STEP 7` : When you make changes to your local repositories or when other people make changes to the remote repositories, you will need to sync your local copy of the project with the remote repository.    

<br/>


***YOU DID IT, SIT BACK AND BE PROUD OF YOURSELF***

Commit message:

Listing of Extensions for Github. WIP

MARKDOWN/Cheatsheet_MD.md, after:

# **WELCOME TO THE GIT CHEAT SHEET**

    AUTHOR:         ESHAN KALP TRIVEDI  (Github: EshanTrivedi21)
    REFERENCE:      GIT GITHUB BOOTCAMP - COLT STEELE (UDEMY)
    DESCRIPTION:    Your very own Git AND Github Cheat Sheet having basic Windows Terminal Cheats as well!

***GO ON FROM HERE, ALL THE BEST***


<br/>

## TERMINAL BASICS:

It is the LIST command which LISTS all the contents of a Directory

    $ ls                                   

LOCATES to a directory and then LISTS the contents

    $ ls foldername                        

PRINT WORKING DIRECTORY

    $ pwd                                  

CHANGES and HOPS onto the respective Working Directory

    $ cd C:\User\Eshan\foldername        

HOPS onto the Parent Directory of the Working Directory

    $ cd ..   

CLEARS the used Terminal                             

    $ clear                                

QUITS out of a entered command

    $ q                                    

CREATES an Empty directory inside the Working Directory

    $ mkdir foldername                     

DELETES the file

    $ rm filename                          

DELETES the directory

    $ rm -rf foldername                    

OPENS the File Explorer to the ROOT Directory

    $ start .                              

<br/>

## SETTING GIT USER NAME AND EMAIL: 

to CHECK if git User-Name is set

    $ git config user.name   

to CHECK if git User-Email is set

    $ git config user.email                                            

To SET or CHANGE git User-Name

    $ git config --global user.name "Eshan Trivedi"                    

To SET or CHANGE git User-Email

    $ git config --global user.email eshan.trivedi.9@gmail.com         

to SET or CHANGE default code editor as VsCode

    $ git config --global core.editor "code --wait"                    

to CHANGE git User-Name and git User-Email directly in the config file using vim

    $ git config --global --edit                                       

to STORE git User-Name and git User-Email in disk

    $ git config credential.helper store                               

To EXIT vim

    $ escape + :wq                                                     

<br/>


## GETTING  GIT HELP:

Use for more details and examples on any of the below (or above) commands e.g. push, pull etc.                     

    $ git command --help                                              

<br/>

## CREATING A GIT REPOSITORY:

`STEP 1` :   INITIALIZES an empty repository
    
    $ git init             

`STEP 2` : to CHECK the status of a repository, a .git directory is created, all git history is deleted if .git is deleted

    $ git status           

<br/>

## STAGING FILE/FILES OF THE REPOSITORY:

*(to keep a track of modifications or changes)*

<br/>

STAGES the file

    $ git add filename.txt         

UN-STAGES the file

    $ git rm --cached filename.txt                           

STAGES all files in the repository

    $ git add --all 

        OR  

    $ git all . 

        OR

    $ git add .        

<br/>

## COMMITING A COMMIT:

<br/>


COMMITS the STAGED files with a commit message

    $ git commit -m "commit message"           

SKIPS the Staging part and directly COMMITS

    $ git commit -a -m "commit message"        

LOGS all the commits done to the repository
    
    $ git log                                  

LOG commits in a single line

    $ git log --oneline                        

AMMENDS the previous commit

    $ git commit --ammend                      

LOGS the changes

    $ git diff                                 

<br/>

## EVERYTHING ABOUT GIT IGNORE:

*(git doesnt consider the files/folders which are in .gitignore)*

`STEP 1` :             create a .gitignore file

`STEP 2` :             add files or folders inside the file to ignore, now the files are are untracked by github and wont be staged or commited

<br/>

## GIT BRANCHING:

*(if you  are trying something out but do on want to play with the main branch)*

LOGS all the branches of the Working Repository with an * in the Current Head or GO to .git\refs\heads

    $ git branch                       

CREATES a new branch but the branch is not yet SWITCHED
    
    $ git branch branchname            

SWITCHES the Branch from one to another or CHANGING HEAD, but the current changes need to be STASHED or COMMITED

    $ git switch branchname            

CREATES a new branch and then SWITCHES to the branches

    $ git switch -c newbranch          

CREATES a new branch and then SWITCHES to the branch

    $ git checkout -b newbranch        

DELETES newbranch, but you cant be Headed on the Branch you want to delete

    $ git branch -D newbranch          

CHANGES the name of the Branch you are Headed on
    
    $ git branch -M finalbranch        

TO DELETE A REMOTE BRANCH IN GIT

    $ git push --delete origin branchname 

<br/>

## MERGING BRANCHES:

*FAST FORWARD MERGE (NO CHANGES done on the Master Branch)*

`STEP 1` : SWITCH the HEAD first to the first branch         
    
    $ git switch master     

`STEP 2` : MERGES newbranch into master with HEAD on master        
    
    $ git merge newbranch          

   
*NOT ALL MERGES ARE FAST FORWARD MERGES*

1. WITHOUT MERGE CONFLICTS

        $ git switch master
    
    CREATES a new commit unlike fastforwarding merges

        $ git merge -m "mergering message"         

2. MERGE CONFLICTS

    *(only if conflict message occurs)*

    `STEP 1` : OPEN UP files having merge conflicts 

    `STEP 2` : REMOVE the conflicts 

       OPTION 1:           ACCEPT INCOMING CHANGES

       OPTION 2:           ACCEPT CURRENT CHANGES

       OPTION 3:           ACCEPT BOTH CHANGES

       OPTION 4:           COMPARE CHANGES 

    `STEP 3` : REMOVE the conflict markers

    `STEP 4` : STAGE and COMMIT the changes

3. ABORT MERGE (UNDO merge when mistakenly code merged & multiple unresolvable merging conflicts occur)

        $ git merge --abort

<br/>


## STASHING IN GIT:

*(needed when switching branches but the changes arent commit ready but by not stashing, the changes will behave wierdly)*

1. CHANGES WILL EITHER COME IN THE DESTINATION BRANCH

2. GIT WONT ALLOW SWITCHING IF THERE ARE CONFLICTS

    *(hence to prevent this staging is important, its like a save but doesnt show up anywhere unless popped)*

    STASHES the changes

        $ git stash

    UN STASHES the changes, use it when you resume your work
  
        $ git stash pop         
    
    APPLY stashed changes into another or the same branch

        $ git stash apply      

3. IF WORKING WITH MULTIPLE STASHES

      LOGS all the stashes

         $ git stash list                   

      STASHES the changes in the Stash index 1

		 $ git stash apply stash@{1}        

	  DELETES the stash, p.s. applying the stash doesnt delete it

		 $ git stash drop stash@{1}         

	  CLEARS the whole stash list

		 $ git stash clear                  
            
<br/>

## TIME TRAVELLING WITH GIT:

 1. TO JUST CHECK WHAT THE REPOSITORY LOOKED LIKE IN THE COMMIT ID 604a39a
 
 	DETACHES HEAD and attaches it to the commit with the commit id 604a39a
	
	*(this is not normal because HEAD is meant to map a whole branch and not a specific commit)*

        $ git checkout 604a39a
    
    DETACHES HEAD and ATTACHES it to the previous commit

        $ git checkout HEAD~1    
    
    RE-ATTACHES HEAD and now the head properly maps onto the master branch

        $ git switch master                
    
2. TO CREATE AND WORK WITH A NEW BRANCH AT COMMIT ID 604a39a

        $ git checkout 604a39a             
    
    now the HEAD is perfect where it should have been

        $ git switch -c "new branch"       
    
3. TO RESTORE ALL CHANGES TO TRACKED FILES
        
        $ git reset origin/main --hard

   
 4. TO RESTORE CHANGES OF A PARTICULAR FILE TO THE LAST COMMIT

        $ git checkout HEAD filename.txt

    OR           

        $ git restore filename.txt

5. TO RESTORE CHANGES OF A PARTICULAR FILE TO THE SECOND-LAST COMMIT

        $ git restore --source HEAD~1 filename.txt

6. UNSTAGE A FILE 

        $ git restore --unstaged filename.txt 

7. RESETING THE REPOSITORY TO A PARTICULAR COMMIT
    
    RESETS the HEAD to the commit id 604a39a, but it doesnt delete the changes. 
	
	*(it like there is no commit made after commit id 604a39a)*

        $ git reset 604a39a            

    LOOSES the commit as well as LOOSES the contents of the commit

        $ git reset --hard 604a39a     

8. REVERTING THE REPOSITORY TO A PARTICULAR COMMIT

    REVERTS the changes in that particular commit and CREATES a new commit after reverting changes 
	
	*(p.s. this helps while collaboration)*

        $ git revert 604a39a           

<br/>

## CREATING GITHUB RESPOSITORIES:

1. BUILD A NEW REPOSITORY AND START WORKING FROM SCRATCH (BY REMOTING)

    `STEP 1` : CREATE A NEW REPOSITORY ON YOUR GITHUB WEBSITE AND COPY THE URL

    `STEP 2` : CREATES an empty git repository    
    
        $ git init                                     

    `STEP 3` : WRITE YOUR PIECE OF CODE            

    `STEP 4` : a commit is needed to push any files to github       
    
        $ git commit -a -m "first commit"              

    `STEP 5` : CREATES a new REMOTE DESTINATION for the github repository
    
        $ git remote add origin <copied url>           

    `STEP 6` : LOGS out the REMOTE URL if any

        $ git remote -v                                

    
    `STEP 7` :   PUSHES the last commited code to github        
        
        $ git push -u origin branchname                
    
    *(p.s. the -u is like a setting the origin remote and master branch as a default so that we can use just this in futur)* 
    
        $ git push 

 2. BUILD A NEW REPOSITORY AND START WORKING FROM SCRATCH (BY CLONING)

    `STEP 1` : CREATE A NEW REPOSITORY ON YOUR GITHUB WEBSITE AND COPY THE URL

    `STEP 2` : CLONES as well as automatically sets the REMOTE DESTINATION
    
        $ git clone <copied url>                       

    `STEP 3` : WRITE YOUR PIECE OF CODE

    `STEP 4` : a commit is needed to push any files to github
    
        $  git commit -a -m "first commit"              
        
    `STEP 5` : PUSHES the last commited code to github
    
        $ git push -u origin branchname
    
    *(p.s. the -u is like a setting the origin remote and master branch as a default so that we can use just this in future)*
        
        $ git push 
    
3. CONNECT YOUR PREEXISTING GIT REPOSITORY TO A NEW GITHUB REPOSITORY

    `STEP 1` : CREATE A NEW REPOSITORY ON YOUR GITHUB WEBSITE AND COPY THE URL

    `STEP 2` :  CREATES a new REMOTE DESTINATION for the github repository

        $ git remote add origin <copied url>           

    `STEP 3` : LOGS out the REMOTE URL if any

        $ git remote -v                               

    `STEP 4` : PUSHES the last commited code to github
    
        $ git push -u origin branchname                 
    
    *(p.s. the -u is like a setting the origin remote and master branch as a default so that we can use just this in future)*
    
        $ git push 

<br/>

## THE origin/master THEORY:

*origin/master is called as a REMOTE TRACKING BRANCH, It is a Remote Branch that represents our local Branch

LOGS the remote tracking branch

    $ git branch -r                        
    
to check out the remote branch code: DETACHES HEAD onto the remote tracking HEAD, in a case where the local branch is    ahead of the remote branch and not up to date, push to make it up to date

    $ git checkout origin/master
	
now if you CLONE a repository with multiple branches and run

    $ git branch
	
then technically all the branches should have been logged, but this is not the case only master branch is logged, this is because by default only local master branch is connected to the remote branch but others need to be connected in order to work with them and the simplest way to do so is:

to check all the branches available

    $ git branch -r                        

this automatically CONNECTS the two branches and we can freely work on them now

    $ git switch branchname                

now this correctly LOGS all the connected branches

    $ git branch                           

<br/>

## FETCHING:

*FETCHING allows to get changes from the github remote repository to our local git repository but DOESN'T CHANGE into the working directory*
 
To RECIEVE the new commits

    $ git fetch                                                                

CREATES a new branch having the changes but this doesnt interfere in the working directory, the origin/master now heads on to this new branch and the master branch would be one branch behind the origin/master)

    $ git fetch origin

or      

    $ git fetch origin branchname              

to CHECK out the remote branch code: DETACHES HEAD onto the remote tracking HEAD, in a case where the local branch is ahead of the remote branch and not up to date, push to make it up to date)         

    $ git checkout origin/master                                               

<br/>

## PULLING = FETCHING + MERGING:

PULLS the changes and merges the changes with the branch you want to OR default
        
    $ git pull origin      
    
or

    $ git pull origin branchname               

        
*SOLVE MERGE CONFLICTS IF ANY* 

<br/>

## FORCE PUSH AND PULL:

    $ git push origin <your_branch_name> -f                                          
        
This will delete your previous commit(s) and push your current one. f signifies force .
 
       
    $ git pull --rebase=interactive   
    
OR
 
    $ git pull --rebase=i                        
    
*This is nothing but fetch + rebase. This will invoke rebase in interactive mode where you can choose how to apply each individual commit that isn't in the history you are rebasing on.*
 
*REFER TIME TRAVELLING WITH GIT for more git force pulling commands*

<br/>

## GITHUB COLLABORATION:
    
`CENTRALIZED WORKFLOW` : 

Everybody works on the same main branch and push and pull in the main branch only.

`FEATURE BRANCH WORKFLOW` : 

Every feature is pushed upon another independent branch to minimize mess.

`GITHUB PULL REQUEST WORKFLOW` : 

Once a pull request is opened, you can discuss and review the potential changes with collaborators and add follow-up commits before your changes are merged into the base branch.

`GITHUB FORKS AND CLONE WORKFLOW` : 

Forking nd then opening a pull request to the owner of the main repository.


<br/>

## GIT REBASING:
    
REBASES or SEPARATES the history of the newbranch from the master branch

    $ git switch newbranch

REBASES or MERGES master into newbranch   
    
    $ git rebase master                

CONFLICTS WHILE REBASING

`STEP 1` : Resolve the CONFLICTS MANUALLY

`STEP 2` :         
    
    $ git add .

`STEP 3` :        

    $ git rebase --continue

 <br/>   

## INTERACTIVE REBASING:

OPENS up the code editor where you can play with the nth last commits and above
    
    $ git rebase -i HEAD~n    

 CHANGES the name of a specific commit

    reword                         

COMBINES the changes of that commit to the previous commit and then deletes it

    fixup                           

DELETES the commit and the commit changes as if they were never written

    drop                            

<br/>

## GIT TAGS:

TAGS and DENOTES the importance of a commit

*Semanting Versioning Format is widely used for tags and releases (v1.0.1)*

LOGS all the tags
    
    $ git tag -l      

LOGS tag name v17                     
    
    $ git tag -l "v17"                     

LOGS tag names that start with v17..

    $ git tag -l "v17*"                    

LOGS tags which include beta in their name

    $ git tag -l "*beta*"                  

to CHECKOUT the code in the tag, use CHECKOUT

LOGS the changes between both the versions

    $ git diff v16.0.1 v16.1.1             

CREATES a lightweight tag

    $ git tag tagname         

CREATES an annotated tag

    $ git tag -a tagname                   

LOGS the message of the git tag "annotated"

    $ git show annotation                  

CREATES a tag at commit number 604a39a

    $ git tag -a tagname 604a39a           

DELETES the tag

    $ git tag -d tagname                   

TRANSFERS tags to remote servers  

    $ git push origin tagname              

<br/>

## GITHUB DESKTOP:

Interact with GitHub using a GUI instead of the command line or a web browser

1.Installing and authenticating

`STEP 1` : Download GitHub Desktop for Windows using this [URL](https://desktop.github.com/).

`STEP 2` : Click on “File” on the navbar, go down to “Options,” choose “Accounts,” and get authentication.

2.Contributing to projects with GitHub Desktop

`STEP 1` : You can create a new repository by selecting the File menu and clicking New repository.

`STEP 2`: You can add a repository from your local computer by selecting the File menu and clicking Add Local Repository.

`STEP 3` : You can clone a repository from GitHub by selecting the File menu and clicking Clone Repository.

`STEP 4` : You can use GitHub Desktop to create a branch of a project.

`STEP 5` : After you make changes to a branch, you can review them in GitHub Desktop and make a commit to keep track of your changes.

`STEP 6` : You can use GitHub Desktop to create issues or pull requests to collaborate on projects with other people.

`STEP 7` : When you make changes to your local repositories or when other people make changes to the remote repositories, you will need to sync your local copy of the project with the remote repository.    

<br/>

## Extensions for Github

if you're a Developer and you use Github as your Version Control Tools, there's likely some functionality you wish it had. To help with these there are some best extension that you can use for Github.

1. **Octotree**
    This is a feature-rich extensions that enhance your Github experience. It facilitates you with code tree to all the github repositories, which simplifies your file search and navigation. (though now this is by default provided by Github)

    It also offers you bookmarking repositories, files and PRs. It increase your productivity at work by lazy-loading and caching. Besides these there are too


***YOU DID IT, SIT BACK AND BE PROUD OF YOURSELF***
